Title: Programming Assignment 1
Author: Emily McCue
Due Date: March 29, 2022
Class: CS 457, Section 1001
Professor: Prof. Zhao

Overview:
    In this assignment, you will write a program that allows a database user to manage the metadata of their relational 
    data. By metadata, we mean the database’s high-level information (e.g., database’s name, creation time, owner) as 
    well as the properties of the tables (e.g., table’s names, attributes, constraints).

System Design:
    One directory -> database
    One file -> table

Database and Table Management:
    The program organizes multiple databases by storing each database as a directory in the Programming Assignment 1
    folder. In order to not create duplicate databases, each time a new database is requested to be created, the new
    database's inputted name is stored as a string and the Programming Assignment 1 folder is combed through to see
    if that name is already in use. If it has, it exits the request and displays to the user that it was unable to
    complete the request because a database with that name already exists. If there is no database with the inputted
    database name in the Programming Assignment 1 folder, then a database with that name is created and it displays
    to the user that the database was created successfully.

    The program manages multiple tables by storing each table as a file in each respective database (directory)
    that was in use when the table was created. In order to create a table, a database must be in use as inputted by
    the user. If there is no database in use, no table may be created. Once a database is in use, to create
    a table, the inputted name of the table to be created is stored as a string and the database is combed through to
    check if a file with the same name exists already. If the name is already in use, it exits the request and displays
    to the user that it was unable to complete the request because a table with that name already exists in the
    database that is currently in use. If the name is not in use, a file with the inputted name is created and stored
    in the database in use. This allows the user to have tables with the same name as long as they are stored in
    different databases, and prevents the user from creating duplicately named tables in the same database.

Implementation of Functionalities:
    Using C++ language, functionalities have been created including database creation and deletion, and table creation,
    deletion, update and query.

    Database creation -- consists of creating a directory with the name inputted by the user. The inputted command from 
        user is stored as an array and passed into the tokenize() function. This function tokenizes the input and stores
        the first token as a string. This string is checked to see if we are using a database, or if we are operating
        outside of a database. If we are operating outside of a database, the tokens are passed into the notUsing()
        function which returns a boolean that either continues or ends the program. The notUsing() function takes the
        next token and stores it as a string. This is then compared against the possible options (CREATE or DROP). To 
        create, the tokens are passed to the create() function. The create() function stores the next token as a string
        and compares it to the possible options at this point (DATABASE, or an error message is displayed). If it 
        matches this, it stores the next token (the database name) as a char*, removes the semicolon ';', and then 
        stores this as a string. It then calls the function databaseExists() and passes the database name stored as a 
        string to it. This checks if the database already exists. If the database does not exist, a database is created
        with the inputted database name as it's name and a succes message is displayed to the screen. If the database 
        already exists, a failure message is displayed to the screen and the create() function finishes. It returns to
        the notUsing() function, where the boolean false is returned to the function tokenize(). Tokenize now returns
        this result (false) to main where the while loop continues because exit still is equal to false. The terminal
        is now ready for another command from the user.

    Database deletion -- consists of deleting the directory with the name inputted by the user. The inputted command from 
        user is stored as an array and passed into the tokenize() function. This function tokenizes the input and stores
        the first token as a string. This string is checked to see if we are using a database, or if we are operating
        outside of a database. If we are operating outside of a database, the tokens are passed into the notUsing()
        function which returns a boolean that either continues or ends the program. The notUsing() function takes the
        next token and stores it as a string. This is then compared against the possible options (CREATE or DROP). To 
        drop, the tokens are passed to the drop() function. The drop() function stores the next token as a string
        and compares it to the possible options at this point (DATABASE, or an error message is displayed). If it 
        matches this, it stores the next token (the database name) as a char*, removes the semicolon ';', and then 
        stores this as a string. It then calls the function databaseExists() and passes the database name stored as a 
        string to it. This checks if the database already exists.  If the database already exists, the database with 
        the inputted name is deleted and a succes message is displayed to the screen. If the database does not exist, a
        failure message is displayed to the screen and the create() function finishes. It returns to the notUsing() 
        function, where the boolean false is returned to the function tokenize(). Tokenize now returns this result 
        (false) to main where the while loop continues because exit still is equal to false. The terminal is now ready
        for another command from the user.

    Table creation -- consists of creating a file with the inputted name in the database that is actively being used.
        The inputted command from user is stored as an array and passed into the tokenize() function. This function 
        tokenizes the input and stores the first token as a string. This string is checked to see if we are using a 
        database, or if we are operating outside of a database. If the user has not previously selected a database to
        be operating in, table creation will not succeed because it will go into the notUsing() function which does
        not have table making capabilities because one can only create a table if opeating inside of database. If a
        database has been selected to be in use previously, the command USE "database name" would have been used which
        would return true to the first if statement in tokenize(). The next token is then stored as a string and the
        semicolon ';' is removed. This string is then passed into the function databaseExists() which returns true if
        the database exists. If it returns false, it falls to the else { } of the second if/else statement and an error
        message is displayed and tokenize boolean is returned as false. The terminal is then ready for another command
        from the user. If it returns true, a success message is displayed, and the string with the database name
        stored is passed to the function nowUsing(). In the nowUsing() function, a boolean and char array is 
        initialized. A while loop with the previously declared boolean as it's condition begins. This while loop
        prompts the user for another command from the terminal and stores it in the char array. This is then tokenized
        and the first token is stored as a string. The semicolon ';' is removed from the token if it exists and the 
        token is then compared to the functionalities available while operating within a database. If the token is
        equal to "CREATE", then the tokens and the name of the database in use is passed to the function createTB().
        This function stores the next token as a string and checks to see if it is equal to "TABLE". If it is not
        equal, then an error message displays, the program finishes and the terminal is ready for another command from
        the user. If it is equal, the next token (table name) is stored as a string and the semicolon ';' is removed.
        The path to the table is created by concatenating the database in uses name, a forward slash '/', the table
        name, and the file type '.txt'. It then stores the remaining tokens (the data to be stored in table) to a
        string variable. If this string is not empty (there were no more tokens), the commas ',' are replaced with
        pipes '|' and the beginning and end parentheses '()' are removed. The path to the table is then passed to the
        function tableExists() and if it returns true (table already exists in database), an error message is 
        displayed to the screen and the terminal is ready for a new command from user. If if returns false (table does
        not exist in database), the table is created in the database, the formatted remaining tokens are inserted
        into the table, the table is closed, a success message is displayed, and the function ends and is returned to
        the nowUsing() function where the loop continues. The terminal is now ready for another command from the user.

    Table deletion -- consists of deleting the file with the inputted name in the database that is actively being used.
        The inputted command from user is stored as an array and passed into the tokenize() function. This function 
        tokenizes the input and stores the first token as a string. This string is checked to see if we are using a 
        database, or if we are operating outside of a database. If the user has not previously selected a database to
        be operating in, table creation will not succeed because it will go into the notUsing() function which does
        not have table making capabilities because one can only create a table if opeating inside of database. If a
        database has been selected to be in use previously, the command USE "database name" would have been used which
        would return true to the first if statement in tokenize(). The next token is then stored as a string and the
        semicolon ';' is removed. This string is then passed into the function databaseExists() which returns true if
        the database exists. If it returns false, it falls to the else { } of the second if/else statement and an error
        message is displayed and tokenize boolean is returned as false. The terminal is then ready for another command
        from the user. If it returns true, a success message is displayed, and the string with the database name
        stored is passed to the function nowUsing(). In the nowUsing() function, a boolean and char array is 
        initialized. A while loop with the previously declared boolean as it's condition begins. This while loop
        prompts the user for another command from the terminal and stores it in the char array. This is then tokenized
        and the first token is stored as a string. The semicolon ';' is removed from the token if it exists and the 
        token is then compared to the functionalities available while operating within a database. If the token is
        equal to "DROP", then the tokens and the name of the database in use is passed to the function dropTB().
        This function stores the next token as a string and checks to see if it is equal to "TABLE". If it is not
        equal, then an error message displays, the program finishes and the terminal is ready for another command from
        the user. If it is equal, the next token (table name) is stored as a string and the semicolon ';' is removed.
        The path to the table is created by concatenating the database in uses name, a forward slash '/', the table
        name, and the file type '.txt'. The path to the table is then passed to the function tableExists() and if it 
        returns true (table already exists in database), an error message is displayed to the screen and the terminal 
        is ready for a new command from user. If if returns false (table does not exist in database), an error message
        is displayed, the function ends, the nowUsing() loop continues, and the terminal is ready for another command
        from the user. If it returns true (table does exist in database), the table is deleted, the function ends, the
        nowUsing() loop continues, and the terminal is ready for another command from the user.

    Table update -- consists of altering the table by tokenizing the user input, processing the type of update being 
        requested, and updating the table based on the request. The inputted command from user is stored as an array 
        and passed into the tokenize() function. This function tokenizes the input and stores the first token as a 
        string. This string is checked to see if we are using a database, or if we are operating outside of a database. 
        If the user has not previously selected a database to be operating in, table creation will not succeed because 
        it will go into the notUsing() function which does not have table making capabilities because one can only 
        create a table if opeating inside of database. If a database has been selected to be in use previously, the 
        command USE "database name" would have been used which would return true to the first if statement in 
        tokenize(). The next token is then stored as a string and the semicolon ';' is removed. This string is then 
        passed into the function databaseExists() which returns true if the database exists. If it returns false, it 
        falls to the else { } of the second if/else statement and an error message is displayed and tokenize boolean 
        is returned as false. The terminal is then ready for another command from the user. If it returns true, a 
        success message is displayed, and the string with the database name stored is passed to the function 
        nowUsing(). In the nowUsing() function, a boolean and char array is initialized. A while loop with the 
        previously declared boolean as it's condition begins. This while loop prompts the user for another command 
        from the terminal and stores it in the char array. This is then tokenized and the first token is stored as 
        a string. The semicolon ';' is removed from the token if it exists and the token is then compared to the 
        functionalities available while operating within a database. If the token is equal to "ALTER", then the 
        tokens and the name of the database in use is passed to the function alter(). This function stores the next 
        token as a string and checks to see if it is equal to "TABLE". If it is not equal, then an error message 
        displays, the program finishes and the terminal is ready for another command from the user. If it is equal, 
        the next token (table name) is stored as a string. The path to the table is created by concatenating the 
        database in use's name, a forward slash '/', the table name, and the file type '.txt'. The next token is then 
        stored as a string, and is checked in an if loop to be equal to the possible functionalities (ADD). If it 
        does not equal a functionality, an error message displays, the program finishes and the terminal is ready 
        for another command from the user. The rest of the tokens are stored to a string, the semicolon ';' is 
        removed, and if the string is not empty, the commas ',' are replaced by piping '|' and the parentheses 
        '()' are removed. The table path is then passed to tableExists(). If it returns false (table does not 
        exist), an error message displays, the program finishes and the terminal is ready for another command from 
        the user. If it returns true (table exists), the modified remaining token string is appended to the table
        and a success message is displayed, the function ends, the nowUsing() loop continues, and the terminal is 
        ready for another command from the user.

    Table query -- consists of selecting the table by tokenizing the user input, processing what is being requested to
        select, and then displaying what has been requested. The inputted command from user is stored as an array and 
        passed into the tokenize() function. This function tokenizes the input and stores the first token as a string. 
        This string is checked to see if we are using a database, or if we are operating outside of a database. If the 
        user has not previously selected a database to be operating in, table creation will not succeed because it 
        will go into the notUsing() function which does not have table making capabilities because one can only create 
        a table if opeating inside of database. If a database has been selected to be in use previously, the command 
        USE "database name" would have been used which would return true to the first if statement in tokenize(). The 
        next token is then stored as a string and the semicolon ';' is removed. This string is then passed into the 
        function databaseExists() which returns true if the database exists. If it returns false, it falls to the 
        else { } of the second if/else statement and an error message is displayed and tokenize boolean is returned 
        as false. The terminal is then ready for another command from the user. If it returns true, a success message 
        is displayed, and the string with the database name stored is passed to the function nowUsing(). In the 
        nowUsing() function, a boolean and char array is initialized. A while loop with the previously declared 
        boolean as it's condition begins. This while loop prompts the user for another command from the terminal and 
        stores it in the char array. This is then tokenized and the first token is stored as a string. The semicolon
        ';' is removed from the token if it exists and the token is then compared to the functionalities available 
        while operating within a database. If the token is equal to "SELECT", then the tokens and the name of the 
        database in use is passed to the function select(). The next three tokens are stored as individual string
        variables and the semicolon is removed from the last one. The path to the table is created by concatenating
        the database in use's name, a forward slash '/', the table name, and the file type '.txt'. The first token
        is compared to the functionalities available (*) and the second token is compared to the functionalities
        available (FROM). If they are not equal, an error message displays, the function finishes and the terminal 
        is ready for another command from the user. If they are equal, the table path is passed to the function
        tableExists(). If it returns false (table does not exist), an error message displays, the function finishes 
        and the terminal is ready for another command from the user. If it returns true (table exists), the contents
        of the file is displayed to the terminal, the the function finishes and the terminal is ready for another 
        command from the user.